---
layout: post
title: "Hackathon against Gender Based Violence"
description: "Expereince at the hackahon against GBV, conducted on the 24th, 25th and 26th of January, 2016"
tags: [technology] 
---

A hackathon against Gender Based Violence was organised in Ranchi this January, by the awesome folks at [RHoK](https://rhokbangalore.wordpress.com/) India and the [Bachchao Project](http://thebachchaoproject.org/). I had not attended a Hackathon before, but both Gender Based Equality and Technology being topics close to my heart, I decided to travel to Ranchi for the event. I was able to grab one of the travel and accommodation grants and reached the three day event with great enthusiasm. The event was preceded by a course on Eliademy and discussed various topics like 'Deconstructing Gender', 'Understanding power, discrimination, privilege, and masculinity' and 'Women in Public spaces and co-relation to GBV' were discussed. Participants were asked to discuss their ideas in the open forum and were told about the existing technology initiatives from the around globe and India against GBV. This helped a lot in setting the context and made sure all of us were in the same page at the start of the event. 

The first day of the event was the dedicated to interaction between various NGOs and making sure everybody understood the problem we are trying to solve. Personally, I think this was best part of the event. We heard from various NGOs like [Yuwa](http://www.yuwa-india.org/) and [Swayam](http://www.swayam.info/) who are working at the ground level to bring about Gender Equality. This interaction provided the much needed perspective for us also. The NGOs, introduced themselves to us and let us know about the problems that they were facing, the solution to which they were hopeful to receive at the Hackathon. There were a lot of technology leaders who could help and mentor us during the event. The participants also had a refresher about the course that they had earlier taken. 

Anuradha Kapoor, the Managing Trustee & Founder of Swayam does a lot of advocacy work for her NGO. She needs a lot of data to do this, and in India there is right now a lack of Data. She and her team manually went through various newspapers based out of West Bengal, developing a database of all cases of violence against women reported in the newspaper. They did this effort for six months and had collected some very useful data. However it was too tedious a job to sit and collect news from the papers everyday and she wondered if technology could help her build this database. The answer was yes and projects like this are what make technology interesting to me. I joined a few others who were keen to work on this project, sat with Anuradha to understand the problem better, and by the end of first day, we knew what we would be working on for the next two days.

The team got together the second day and started working on the project. People kept walking out and new people kept walking in and by the end of the event, I was the only techie working on the project! I will reserve my approach to the solution and the technology details for another blog, but would love to mention the support received by mentors here. They stayed with us through the event making sure we got all the technical help needed, showing us the right direction when we were lost and through regular stand-ups monitored our progress. At the end of the third day, we all showcased our projects and the judges selected the two projects that would go through an accelerator program and receive all the necessary support for the project to go live. Unfortunately mine wasn't one, but I want to continue working on it and may be help organisations like Swayam one day.

I have to mention the attention paid to the logistics of the event. It was perfectly organised, I was picked up from the Railway Station, driven around and dropped off to the airport post the event. The accommodation was perfect and every meal during the stay was taken care. It was one of the best events I attended, my first technology event and I learnt a lot. Thanks a lot for arranging this, Bachchao and RHoK.